<SUM
DOCSET="d065"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880817-0040"
SELECTOR="J"
SUMMARIZER="F">

Relatives and friends of Republican Vice Presidential candidate Dan
Quayle do not believe that his candidacy will have an adverse effect
on his family life.  Quayle and his wife are devoted to their three
children and remain close to many of their friends during the period
that the 41-year old senator has been in public life.  Both Quayle's
and his wife's roots are in Indiana.  After law school, he worked in
the Indiana attorney general's office.  The Quayles have worried about
the family's loss of privacy during the campaign. Their three
children were two to one in favor of Quayle's accepting the VP spot
if offered.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d065"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880818-0226"
SELECTOR="J"
SUMMARIZER="F">

Senator Bob Dole of Kansas made the nominating speech for Senator Dan
Quayle for vice president at the Republican Convention.  In the
speech, Dole called Quayle a dedicated public servant and a devoted
family man.  Dole said that Dan was always willing to make the tough
choices and cast the tough votes.  He was also characterized as an
advocate and supporter of the Reagan revolution working to transform
Reagan's vision into the law.  Dole also cited what he characterized
as negative aspects of Democratic presidential candidate Michael
Dukakis' experience.  Dole then cited Quayle's twelve years experience
tackling national and international problems.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d065"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880818-0023"
SELECTOR="J"
SUMMARIZER="F">

Senator John Warner of Virginia, who served in the Senate with Dan
Quayle said that when he heard the VP nominee speak, he thought him to
be the next Thomas Jefferson.  Former president Ford compared Quayle
to President Kennedy.  Quayle's reaction to those comparisons is not
known, but he has taken umbrage to earlier look alike comparisons with
actor Robert Redford.  The actor has asked that Quayle stop making
those comparisons, but Quayle said, they were made by the press and
not by him.  Eight fellow Republican senators voiced their favorable
feelings toward Quayle.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d065"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880819-0023"
SELECTOR="J"
SUMMARIZER="F">

Bush's choice for his running mate ran into questions about Dan
Quayle's military record and even suggestions that Quayle should
withdraw.  Quayle had said that he sought National Guard duty so that
he could attend law school, and that he had not used influence to gain
admittance to the Guard.  However, a retired Maj. Gen. who had once
worked for Quayle's grandfather said that he had contacted the Guard
on Quayle's behalf and recommended him highly.  In speeches to the
Republican Convention, Quayle was upbeat and Bush said that he was
proud to have Quayle at his side.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d065"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880826-0226"
SELECTOR="J"
SUMMARIZER="F">

Republican VP candidate Dan Quayle's official resume incorrectly
characterizes his service with the Indiana Consumer Protection
Division.  Quayle has conceded that the resume entry was inaccurate
and said that his staff had written the document.  The erroneous
information had indicated that Quayle was the chief investigator of
the division a year before its creation.  A Quayle spokesman called
the revelation of the error by The Plain Dealer of Cleveland "a cheap
shot".  Quayle also quit referring to himself as a "Vietnam-era
veteran" when objections came from some Vietnam combat veterans.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d065"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA111289-0035"
SELECTOR="J"
SUMMARIZER="F">

After a very quiet first year as vice president, Dan Quayle  agreed to
appear on a national interview show. Quayle's goal had been to
support the president and to make himself a very small target.  Quayle
agreed to appear on "Meet the Press" after having declined many
earlier requests.  He was considered a hot TV guest because he might
screw up.  His appearance on the show went smoothly. But it received
little notice since it occurred when more significant news events were
taking place.  Quayle was pleased that he had been given serious
questions during the interview and, afterward, received word of the
president's pleasure regarding his performance.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d065"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06140099"
SELECTOR="J"
SUMMARIZER="F">

Huntington, Indiana, the home town of VP Dan Quayle is celebrating his
life with the "Premiere Dan Quayle Memorabilia Exhibit".  Relatives,
classmates, and neighbors have donated many items that are in some way
associated with the vice president.  The exhibit was put together by
the Dan Quayle Commemorative Foundation.  The group believes that
Quayle, who could not attend because of a busy schedule, deserves the
tribute.  They are also quick to defend their favorite son but don't
expect him to receive much "good press". "We want everyone to know
that he is a winner, I don't care what the newspapers say" said one of
the exhibit organizers.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d065"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP881114-0006"
SELECTOR="J"
SUMMARIZER="F">

As vice president, Dan Quayle is likely to be the "man on the outside"
in the Bush White House.  His image is that of political novice and
during the campaign he was relegated to small towns and safe GOP
areas.  Bush rarely mentioned him while campaigning.  Quayle has said
that he will be a close advisor to Bush but few believe that will
happen.  Bush and Walter Mondale in their VP campaigns had placed key
staffers in their respective presidential campaigns.  Quayle has
contributed nothing in the way of staff to Bush's campaign.  Quayle is
apparently adapting to his anticipated role and anonymity.</SUM>
