<SUM
DOCSET="d085"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890922-0167"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="A">

Supercomputers and satellites helped predict the path and landfall of Hurricane 
Hugo in time to allow evacuation of Charleston, S.C., but hurricane tracking is 
not an exact science. The intensity of Hugo was upgraded on the basis of Air 
Force reconnaissance just hours before it hit Charleston. There are no reliable 
computer models for forecasting strength. To predict the path, supercomputers 
use satellite data to make constantly changing predictions. Forecasters analyze 
the predictions, satellite data, the history of similar storms and the current 
path to make an educated guess about the landfall. The best information for 
predicting hurricanes still comes from flying airplanes into the hurricane.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d085"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890922-0193"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="A">

After devastating Guadeloupe, Montserrat, Antigua, the Virgin Islands and Puerto 
Rico on Sunday and Monday with winds up to 150 mph, killing at least 20 people 
and leaving perhaps 100,000 homeless, Hurricane Hugo slowed down yesterday to 
winds of 105-125 mph, only to pick up speed again and crash into Charleston, 
S.C. at midnight with winds of 135 mph. In addition to flooding, fires erupted 
from natural gas leaks in Charleston and ten people were killed in the 
Carolinas. Today the hurricane moved inland with steadily diminishing winds and 
was downgraded to a tropical storm at 6 A.M.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d085"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA092789-0093"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="A">

Two insurance companies said Tuesday that they anticipate $600 million in claims 
from Hurricane Hugo which may become the most expensive ever for the industry. 
Losses are particularly high due to the direct hit on Charleston and other 
population centers inland.  The overall damage to insured property will 
undoubtedly exceed the record $752.5 million paid after Hurricane Frederic in 
1979. No individual company is expected to go under since much of the liability 
will be assumed by reinsurers. Overall 1989 catastrophic losses for the industry 
now total $1.6 billion, but these losses could be good for the industry since it 
may cause companies to raise prices.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d085"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890922-0049"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="A">

Hurricane Hugo is the latest of the many disasters faced by Charleston, S.C. in 
its eventful 300 year history. Hugo hit Charleston head-on with winds up to 135 
mph Thursday night. A real killer, it was the first major hurricane to strike 
Charleston since Gracie made landfall 70 miles to the south in 1959. The worst 
disaster in recent decades was in 1938 when a tornado tore through the city 
killing 32 people, injuring hundreds and causing $2 million in property damage. 
The city has survived the effects of two wars and several lesser hurricanes, but 
the worst natural disaster was the Charleston earthquake of Aug. 31, 1886 which 
claimed 110 lives and destroyed 102 buildings.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d085"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890925-0054"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="A">

The mayors of Charleston and North Charleston, S.C. gave credit to residents of 
their cities for the low fatality rate from Hurricane Hugo which hit the city 
with full force. Although the hurricane claimed 17 lives in South Carolina, 
Charleston, which took the brunt of the storm, lost only two. The residents 
heard the warnings of forecasters and officials and took action upon them. 
18,000 residents of Charleston and the three surrounding counties headed for 
shelters. Tens of thousands more got into their cars and headed inland. All of 
these potential victims saved themselves.</SUM> 

<SUM
DOCSET="d085"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890922-0007"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="A">

Hurricane Hugo struck South Carolina Thursday after thousands of coastal 
residents evacuated inland.  In Charleston Hugo littered the streets with tin 
roofs, palmetto fronds and chunks of bark and by midnight 119 mph winds cracked 
the roof of the 188-year-old City Hall that had withstood several earlier 
hurricanes. About 12,000 people had checked into 83 shelters across the state as 
of Thursday evening. A spokesman for the Red Cross reported that they were 
providing shelter for tens of thousands of people all along the eastern seaboard 
as well as for 25,000 in the Caribbean. Hugo is expected to turn north causing 
severe flooding up the East Coast.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d085"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890923-0035"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="A">

Some meteorologists predict hurricanes in the future up to 50 percent stronger 
than Hugo and  Gilbert. Hugo stormed through the eastern Caribbean and the 
Carolinas this past week with 135 mph winds, killing at least 41 people. 
Gilbert, the most powerful hurricane ever recorded with winds up to 180 mph, 
blasted the Caribbean last year killing 300 and causing $2 billion damage. 
Scientists studying global warming say if the seas warm up by 3-6 degrees 
Fahrenheit, the destructive force of hurricanes would increase by 50 percent. 
The warming trend may already be here. Six of the 10 hottest years in the last 
century occurred in the 1980's.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d085"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ890928-0084"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="A">

Damage from Hurricane Hugo which tore through the Caribbean last week will 
reduce third-quarter earnings for several insurers. American International Group 
expects a reduction in pretax earnings of $35-45 million. St. Paul Cos. said the 
pretax cost shouldn't exceed $50 million and for Cigna Corp. a reduction of 35-
40% in per share earnings on an after-tax basis is predicted. State Farm's State 
Fire and Casualty Co. estimates payouts of over $500 million, three times the 
previous record of $165 million set by Hurricane Alicia in 1983. Most of these 
estimates take into account recoveries from the companies' reinsurance 
contracts.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d085"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890922-0072"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="A">

The National Hurricane Center provided life-saving information as Hurricane Hugo 
moved across the Caribbean toward the Carolinas. Forecasters, with the aid of 
satellites and computers, calculated where the hurricane would strike so that 
emergency operations could get underway in those areas.  The center personnel 
felt the word did not get out in the Caribbean, but were reassured by the 
response in the Carolinas where proper response probably saved hundreds or 
thousands of lives. By the time Hugo hit Charleston the center's big job was 
done. Early today there were no immediate reports of deaths despite widespread 
damage in Charleston and coastal South Carolina.</SUM>
