<SUM
DOCSET="d118"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890105-0224"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="F">

Former Senator John Tower, the defense secretary-designate had surgery for
removal of a colon polyp.  Preliminary biopsy showed the polyp to be benign.
Tests of the growth showed it to contain some "malignant but well
differentiated cells".  The ex-senator is expected to make a full recovery.
Tower went into business as a defense consultant after he left the Senate in
1985, having served there for 24 years.  He has also served as an arms
negotiator for President Reagan and he headed the White House's Iran-contra
investigative panel. President-elect Bush named Tower as his defense
secretary on December 16th.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d118"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA020189-0050"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="F">

Paul Weyrich, president of the conservative Free Congress Foundation
testified at the Senate Armed Services Committee that John Tower's behavior
makes him unfit to lead the Pentagon.  Weyrich says that Tower may lack the
"moral character" to be secretary of defense and cites lack of sobriety and
womanizing.  Before this testimony, members of the committee and witnesses
had praise for the former senator.  Other testimony raised questions
regarding Tower's lucrative ties to defense contractors and past support for
big defense budgets.  Senators Nunn and Warner have asked the White House if
allegations against Tower have been investigated by the FBI.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d118"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA020489-0035"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="F">

The FBI is checking allegations that defense secretary-designee John Tower
was recently involved in an episode of public drunkenness.  The former Texas
senator had earlier testified that his problems with alcohol are behind him.
However, a member of the Armed Services Committee says the new allegation
suggests that the drinking problem "may be ongoing".  Chairman Aspin of the
House Armed Services Committee said controversy had already hobbled Tower's
ability to lead the Pentagon.   Two defense industry trade magazines will
call for Tower's withdrawal, one saying that the "speed and greed" which
Tower went between government and industry is appalling.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d118"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890211-0110"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="F">

Defense Secretary-designate John Tower's testimony to the Senate Armed
Services Committee that his work for a British firm did not involve military
matters contradicts a sworn statement he made earlier in a divorce
deposition.  In that earlier deposition, Tower said that he had advised
British Aerospace on how to sell planes and missile systems to the Pentagon.
The New York Post reported that the FBI was lax in investigating incidents
involving Tower, particularly one in a Dallas hotel wherein he was in "no
condition to free himself" from an armchair fire.  Also brought into
question were early morning accidents in which Tower wrecked his car.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d118"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA021189-0003"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="F">

The Senate panel weighing John Tower's nomination for defense secretary has
found a substantial discrepancy in his description of his business dealings
with British Aerospace.  He told the committee that he represented that
company on civil aviation matters and not on military systems.  But in a
divorce deposition in 1986, he said that he represented that firm on a range
of military problems.  This discrepancy prompts concerns not only about his
veracity but also whether he should have registered as a lobbyist under the
Foreign Agents Registration Act.  The FBI is looking into new charges about
Tower's alleged drinking, womanizing, and receipt of campaign contributions.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d118"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ910213-0136"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="F">

A Wall Street Journal editorial notes that with John Tower's qualifications
for Defense Secretary "intelligence, patriotism, and past chairmanship of
the Armed Services Committee" he should have sailed through confirmation.
But the controversy surrounding his nomination will probably sink it.
Granting that Tower often rubs people the wrong way and earlier had "boozed
it up and fooled around", the editorial says that the recent charges of
drinking, womanizing, and services for defense industry clients have not the
"least substance".  Tower accuses Senator Nunn and others of using FBI
queries to discredit him and to put the confirmation process on a personal
basis.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d118"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890228-0146"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="F">

Representative Larry Combest supports his former boss, John Tower, for
Defense Secretary but declined to comment on a published report that Tower
would drink a bottle of scotch at a sitting. An unnamed source stated that
Combest once said Tower would drink as much as a full bottle of scotch two
or three times a week. Tower has acknowledged that he drank excessively
during the 1970s but now drinks only wine with dinner and if confirmed as
defense secretary would not drink a drop of alcohol.  The Senate Armed
Services Committee, controlled by Democrats, voted 11-9 recommending that
the full Senate reject Tower=B9s nomination.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d118"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890309-0143"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="F">

The Democrat-controlled Senate rejected the nomination of former Texas
Senator John Tower to be Secretary of Defense on a 53-47 vote.  The
rejection came after a bitter debate that focused on Tower's drinking
habits, womanizing, and business dealings with defense contractors.  Kansas
GOP Senator Nancy Kassebaum was the only Republican to oppose Tower.  Three
Democrats had voted for Tower.  After the voting, Tower called Senator John
Warner and asked him to thank those who had supported him.  Majority Leader
George Mitchell moved to repair relations between the Senate and President
that had been damaged during the debate.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d118"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890316-0012"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="F">

Some Republicans remain angered over the defeat of John Tower's nomination
for secretary of defense and Senator John Warner said a "Tower standards"
has been established and likely will be invoked whenever a Democratic target
is spotted.  When it appeared certain that Tower would be defeated, he
declined to withdraw and fought on saying that to withdraw would tarnish
Bush's judgement.  The defeat, however, did not cost President Bush a
program, or a major campaign pledge, or the support of voters.  Bush said
the outcome would not hurt other issues.  Senator Sam Nunn believed that
Bush's leadership had not been hurt.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d118"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06097121"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="F">

Former Senator John Tower of Texas and his daughter were among 23 people
killed in a commuter plane crash.  Tower was en route from Atlanta to Sea
Island, off the Georgia coast to attend a party in his honor.  Just the day
before, Senator John Heinz of Pennsylvania and his daughter were killed in a
plane-helicopter collision that involved the same type aircraft that Tower
was in.   Officials did not know the cause of the crash of Tower's plane.
Statements of loss came from Senator Lloyd Bentsen of Texas and Senator Sam
Nunn of Georgia.  Both used the word patriot.</SUM>
