<SUM
DOCSET="d100"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP901009-0072"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="F">

The 50th anniversary of John Lennon's birth was observed in a global
celebration.  Following a brief ceremony at he United Nations, Lennon's
peace anthem "Imagine" was played for an estimated one billion people in 130
nations.  More than 1,000 radio stations and networks from 50 countries had
signed on for the satellite broadcast.  Fans gathered in Hollywood at the
late Beatle's sidewalk star.  In Liverpool, Lennon's hometown, fans and
civic dignitaries paid tribute.  Fans in New York planned a pilgrimage to
the spot outside the Dakota apartment building where Lennon was murdered
nearly 10 years ago.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d100"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900505-0127"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="F">

Thousands of John Lennon fans attended a benefit concert in his hometown,
Liverpool, honoring the late, former Beatle.  Proceeds will go to the Spirit
Foundation, the charity founded by John and Yoko two years prior to his
murder by Mark Chapman in New York.  Many musicians from the US and Britain
performed at the concert.  The other former Beatles did not attend, but Paul
McCartney and Ringo Starr sent taped messages.  The musicians all assembled
on stage for "Give Peace a Chance".  The concert concluded with a recording
of Lennon singing "Imagine" as giant screens showed a video featuring John
and Yoko.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d100"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880915-0066"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="F">

A biography, The Lives of John Lennon, by Albert Goldman portrays the late
Beatle as a violent, anorexic, bisexual, drug-addicted drunk.  Lennon's
widow, the normally reclusive Yoko Ono, has called the work "totally
fiction" in her first broadcast comments on the book.  Goldman calls Ono a
gold-digger who snorted heroin and who was responsible for Paul McCartney's
1980 marijuana bust in Japan.  Ono acknowledged having a heroin problem
during the late 1970s, but denied Goldman's assertion that it was a
$5,000-a-week habit. Ono's interview was taped at the same New York
apartment (at the Dakorta) where she and Lennon lived.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d100"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP901009-0148"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="F">

Beatle fans in Moscow joined a worldwide celebration and tribute for the
late John Lennon who would have turned 50 this week.  The state television
program "Vremya" reported on the event and even called Lennon's "Imagine" an
"anthem of peace".  The Beatle's music had been suppressed during the Soviet
era.  A thousand fans flocked to a hall to rejoice in Lennon's music.  A
plaque outside commemorated speeches given there many years earlier by
Lennon's near namesake, Vladimir Lenin, founder of the Soviet Union.  The
secretary of a Moscow Beatle's fan club said that Lennon's music crosses
borders easily.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d100"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP901009-0186"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="F">

John Lennon's message of peace was delivered when his song "Imagine" was
played simultaneously for one billion people in 130 countries to celebrate
what would have been his 50th birthday.  At a United Nations ceremony for
the event, Lennon's widow, Yoko Ono said that the world is a better place
because of John.  A tape that the slain former Beatle made years earlier
served as an introduction.  "We all want peace, whatever sort of job we
have" was Lennon's message.  Other observances were held from Liverpool to
Moscow to Los Angles.  More than 1,000 radio stations from 50 countries
broadcast the event.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d100"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP901121-0207"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="F">

John Lennon had been in virtual seclusion for five years, taking care of his
son, Sean, and, admittedly out of songwriting ideas.  But, in 1980, he again
felt inspired and returned to the studio to make an album.  Musicians who
worked with Lennon on what were to be his final two albums considered him to
be a hero.  Songs that the former Beatle wrote for these albums were mostly
mainstream pop; no political anthems.  He was a happy man; his singing was
higher and sweeter than before.  He wrote songs that were tributes to his
wife, Yoko Ono, and to Sean.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d100"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP901121-0206"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="F">

John Lennon decided that it was time to make music again after devoting
several years to his son while Yoko Ono ran the family business.  Lennon cut
two more albums before his death in December, 1980.  Since then, Ono has
overseen the release of several albums of John's music and the syndication
of a radio program featuring previously unpublished  songs.  Many believe
that Ono has made millions promoting these ventures and she has been called
"The Merry Widow".  Ono is circumspect about where the money goes except to
say that some goes to the Spirit Foundation, the charitable foundation that
she and John founded.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d100"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP901208-0076"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="F">

Liverpool's mayor, Dorothy Gavin, and John Lennon devotees, laid wreaths at
a bronze statue of the Beatles in the city's Cavern Walks shopping center on
the tenth anniversary of his death.  The center was built at the original
site of the Cavern Club made famous when the Beatles played there in the
1960s.  Father Tom MacKenzie, who was immortalized in the Beatles' 1966 hit
song, "Eleanor Rigby" was present at the ceremony.  Lennon was shot when he
and his wife, Yoko Ono, were returning to their apartment in New York.  Ono
and son Sean would spend the anniversary privately.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d100"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06231192"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="F">

Yoko Ono, widow of the late Beatle, John Lennon promotes her own works, but
her main activity is to promote Lennon's art and image.  She and Lennon were
married in 1970.  Some believe she controlled him but others question if he
could be controlled. She is often blamed for the breakup of the Beatles, but
that would likely have happened without her.  The remaining ex-Beatles were
never fond of her.  Ono was born in Tokyo but lived in the US from 1936
until WWII, when the family had to return to Japan.  She had two other
marriages before Lennon.  She now lives in New York and Geneva.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d100"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ881021-0008"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="F">

A review of Albert Goldman's The Lives of John Lennon  says that the author
has taken the path of many celebrity biographers who select a subject of
respectable reputation and proceed to blacken it.  The review by Andrew
Ferguson appeared in the Wall Street Journal.  The late Beatle had often
recounted his own squalid history of drug use and sexual promiscuity.  After
he married Yoko Ono, Lennon believed his worst days were behind him.
Ferguson says the book is poorly written, awkwardly organized, and
emphasizes minor events while skipping over major ones.  Its shows no other
purpose than to make a man look bad.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d100"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880808-0040"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="F">

According to biographer Albert Goldman in his book The Lives of John Lennon
the late, former Beatle spent much of a three-year period sitting in his
room in the lotus position and smoking marijuana.  Between 1976 and 1979,
Goldman writes that Lennon "could not be more remote".  Lennon was an
anorexic, the eating disorder traced to a comment that he was "the fat
Beatle".  The book claims that Lennon's second wife, Yoko Ono, had a $5,000
a week heroin habit and that John also took heroin and consumed LSD.
Goldman quotes Lennon as saying about LSD "I just ate it--like candy".</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d100"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP881007-0207"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="F">

Cassettes and film footage collected by Yoko Ono constituted the main
elements of the movie Imagine: John Lennon.   The items Ono provided were
edited to make the late John Lennon the narrator of the much acclaimed film.
Despite her intimacy with the material, Ono found it painful to watch the
film.   The movie captures the music and times in which Lennon lived but
doesn't delve deeply into the Beatles' drug use and abusive tempers.  Ono
says that there is still enough footage for another movie.  Also, Lennon had
several unpublished songs, never studio recorded, which might become a
record or possibly a musical.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d100"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880921-0201"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="F">

Celebrity biographer Albert Goldman had a mythic view of "Lennon the Great"
when he began his book The Lives of John Lennon.  He called Lennon's widow
Yoko Ono for assistance, but she never responded.  Goldman says his view of
Lennon changed after 1,200 interviews uncovered the worst regarding Lennon.
He claimed that Lennon stayed in bed for days at a time, was bisexual, a
drug abuser, anorexic, reclusive, and had wild drinking binges.  Goldman had
also written tell-all biographies of Elvis Presley and Lenny Bruce.  Goldman
said his books were bad for Yoko business and for Paul McCartney's business.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d100"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP881001-0104"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="F">

Cynthia Lennon, former wife of the late John Lennon, joined others in
denouncing the unauthorized biography of the late, former Beatle.  Cynthia
Lennon and Lennon's widow, Yoko Ono, both appeared on the CBS show "60
Minutes" in a segment called "The Two Mrs. Lennons".   Both had angry words
for Albert Goldman, who authored the biography The Lives of John Lennon.
Cynthia's and John's son Julian called the book "lies, untruths".  Sean
Lennon, the 12-year old son of John and Yoko rebutted the charge that his
father was inattentive to parenting.  Lennon was murdered by Mark David
Chapman outside his apartment building in 1980.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d100"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890119-0266"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="F">

John Lennon, My Brother was the collaboration of Beatles aficionado,
Geoffrey Giuliano, and Julia Baird, half-sister of the late John Lennon.
Giuliano had wanted to do a book on Lennon while Baird wanted to concentrate
on her and John's often maligned mother, also named Julia.  The book, which
contains many photos, is more of a family album than biography and is a
narrow view of Lennon.  It is a mishmash of anecdotes but mostly tells of a
mother and son who, though living apart had a loving relationship.  Former
Beatle Paul McCartney blessed the book and wrote a forward for it.</SUM> 
