<SUM
DOCSET="d092"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900621-0186"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="F">

The earthquake, which devastated Iran killed at least 25,000 people and
injured thousands more.  Most of the victims were asleep when the quake
struck and died when their fragile homes collapsed on them.  The quake
registered a magnitude 7.7 which is considered a major quake and is the
largest ever recorded in Iran, although twelve quakes greater than magnitude
7 have occurred there in the past 30 years.  Most of the homes were built on
a flood plain of loosely deposited soil that shifts in an earthquake and
allows buildings to collapse.  A US Geological Survey geophysicist compared
the quake to Armenian quake two years earlier.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d092"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900622-0025"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="F">

The earthquake that struck Iran reminded a US geophysicist of the 1988 quake
in Armenia.  The Iran quake was of magnitude 7.7 while the Armenian was 6.9
but both killed about 25,000 persons and for essentially the same reasons:
most victims were in houses that were shoddily built or otherwise fragile
and could collapse easily.  The death toll in Iran was high because it
happened at night when most people were asleep.  This quake was the
strongest ever recorded in Iran, which is in a very active seismic region
and has recorded 12 quakes of magnitude 7 in the past 30 years.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d092"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA062290-0134"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="F">

Iranian news media reacted quietly to Thursday=B9s earthquake that killed
25,000 people in northern Iran.  The country is accustomed to massive
tragedies: a million Iranians were killed in the war with Iraq and hundreds
of thousands of lives were lost when the Islamic revolution overthrew the
Shah. Moreover, an earthquake a dozen years earlier had also killed about
25,000.  Iranian media was quick to report the quake but follow-on reports
mis-characterized the damage as falling mainly on crops.  Iranian President
Hashemi Rafsanjani declared a three-day mourning period for quake victims
but TV showed cartoons for children and a soccer match.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d092"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA062290-0169"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="F">

Iran said that it would welcome relief offered by its enemy, the US, to help
victims of the earthquake whose numbers have now reached 35,000.  In fact,
Iran has said it would welcome aid from all countries of the world except
Israel and South Africa.  Aid from the US would be accepted through the Red
Cross or other humanitarian organizations.  Contacts by Iran with the US are
not handled directly but rather through a third party, normally the Swiss
Embassy in Tehran.  Offers of assistance have come from around the world.
Shelter is needed for 400,000 left homeless by the quake.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d092"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA062390-0068"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="F">

The US government has joined with private humanitarian groups to send aid to
earthquake-ravaged Iran.  The government gave $300,000 of supplies,
including hard hats, leather gloves, face masks, wool blankets, and tents.
Delivery of the goods would probably be by private charters rather than
military transports which would normally do the job.  Death count from the
earthquake stands at 29,000 and about 400,000 are homeless.  Charitable
organizations across are collecting money for Iranian relief.  The American
Jewish World Service is in a quandary wondering if they should provide
assistance since Iran has excluded Israel as a source of aid.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d092"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900623-0022"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="F">

Shahin Gobadi, spokesman for the People's Mojahedin of Iran charged that the
Iranian government is deliberately underreporting the number of casualties
from the massive earthquake that struck northern Iran.  He claims the
government fears a political backlash and is fearful of public outrage.  The
government says that 36,000 have died but Gobadi's organization estimates
the number closer to 100,000.  Gobadi said that shoddy housing in which the
government forced people to live caused the widespread loss of life.  His
listeners cheered and chanted but spent little time expressing sympathy for
the victims.  Gobadi's group helped depose the Shah, but played no role
organizing the Islamic republic.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d092"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900624-0011"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="F">

An anti-American newspaper in Iran said that the US is partly to blame for
the loss of life in the recent earthquake in northern Iran.  By plundering
Iran's oil and other resources, it said, the US prevented use of even a
small part of national resources for development of anti-seismic
construction methods.  According to the paper the Iranian people chant
"Death to America".  The newspaper editorial appearing in the official
Islamic Republic News Agency called upon Iranians to reject relief offers
from the US and "other governments whose hands are stained with the blood of
the Iranian people".</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d092"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900625-0036"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="F">

Planes loaded with relief supplies for Iran's earthquake victims arrived at
Tehran airport from around the world.  One of the planes carried a private
US relief mission, the first in more than a decade.  Delivery of the
supplies from Tehran to the stricken north was hampered by aftershocks that
caused landslides across some of the roads.   Dozens of nations sent people
and all sorts of supplies to the devastated country.  US aid came from
AmeriCares, a private relief organization, and more would come via a Red
Cross charter flight carrying $225,000 worth of supplies donated by the US
government.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d092"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA062590-0096"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="F">

Orange County's Iranian community, which numbers from 60,000 to 80,000,
hoped to raise a half million dollars for relief of earthquake ravaged Iran.
Responses also came from the 150 Iranian doctors practicing in the county
who donated medicine and medical supplies.  The Red Cross was accepting only
cash donations because of shipping costs.  Estimates of the number killed in
the earthquake have risen to 50,000 and an additional 200,000 injured.
Rescue efforts were hampered by a strong aftershock in the region 120 miles
northwest of Tehran.  The new aftershock, with magnitude 5.7, toppled
remaining buildings and caused mudslides that temporarily closed roads.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d092"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900626-0010"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="F">

Americans haven't responded with donations for Iranian earthquake victims as
quickly as they did for the Armenian victims a year and a half earlier.
However, relief agencies expect contributions to pick-up.  An associate
director of World Concern, a private relief agency said there is "a
hierarchy of responsiveness" for Americans.  According to him, Europe gets a
very large response, Asia a pretty good response, but the Middle East lags.
The first shipment of US aid, delivered by AmeriCares arrived in Iran on
Sunday.  It was the first to be accepted by the Iranians since the hostage
crisis of 1979-1980.</SUM>
