<SUM
DOCSET="d114"
TYPE="MULTI"
SIZE="200"
DOCREF="AP900724-0090 AP900324-0081 AP900220-0089 AP900212-0061 AP900524-0130
AP900307-0146 AP900121-0039 AP900208-0116 AP900718-0069 AP900224-0094 AP900625-0090
AP900130-0010 AP900330-0086 AP900821-0092 AP900406-0164"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="F">

Kashmir had been a separate kingdom ruled by a Hindu when Britain
relinquished colonial rule of the Indian subcontinent in 1947.   It was
partitioned on religious lines into India and Pakistan and Kashmir's Hindu
king opted to be part of India.  The Jammu-Kashmir state is India's only
predominately Moslem state with 64% of the state's 5 million people Moslem.
Jammu-Kashmir has been a contentious issue between India and Pakistan from
the beginning and the two have fought over it.  In 1990, separatist
elements, most prominently the Jammu-Kashmir Liberation Front, began a
campaign of violence, including kidnapping, bombings, and assassinations.
Initially, the Moslem separatists wanted to become part of Pakistan, but
later hoped to become an independent nation.  The Indian government began a
crackdown in January of that year, imposing curfews and retaliating to
insurgent attacks.   By summer, police actions and separatists' violence had
resulted in over a thousand deaths.   India and Pakistan hurled charges at
each other with India claiming that Pakistan trained and armed the
insurgents, a claim that Pakistan denied.  Both nations sent troops to the
border area astride the cease-fire line and some shots were exchanged.
Despite the tensions, both countries downplayed the incidents as being
localized and not serious.</SUM>
