<SUM
DOCSET="d114"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900121-0039"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="F">

Fighting between police and Moslem separatists in Srinagar, the summer
capital of the Jammu-Kashmir state killed at least 21 and wounded 100.
Police had imposed a 24-hour curfew to quell the violence resulting from the
militants, led by the Jammu-Kashmir Liberation Front, holding anti-India
demonstrations.  However, crowds defied the curfew. Heavy rains caused
fighting to taper off but the situation remains tense and dangerous.  Both
India and Pakistan claim parts of Kashmir in a dispute that started after
the state was partitioned in 1947.  Most of the population of Kashmir is
Moslem while Jammu is predominately Hindu.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d114"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900130-0010"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="F">

An intelligence officer in Srinagar in Kashmir told his men to shoot any of
the die-hard terrorists they spot as their jeep patrols the streets of this
city of one million people.  The governor of Jammu-Kashmir said that "a
handful of terrorists" are creating a law and order problem, which led to a
government crackdown.  The separatists groups are not united, which gives
the government an advantage.  At least 72 people have been killed in the
past week.  At the end of British colonial rule in 1947, Kashmir opted to
join India.  Pakistan took the western part of Kashmir and India the
eastern.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d114"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900208-0116"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="F">

Moslem militants armed with AK-47 rifles killed two unarmed paramilitary
soldiers on Thursday.  This brings to 81 the number killed since January
20th in clashes between security forces and Moslem militants fighting for
independence from India.  Police officials said that militants had also
exploded bombs in a government building and a bank and had set a fire in a
shopping center.  Kashmir militants had earlier campaigned to join Pakistan
because of its predominately Moslem population but now they wish
independence and status as a neutral country.  Sixty-four percent of the
population of Jammu-Kashmir, India's only predominantly Moslem state are
Moslems.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d114"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900212-0061"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="F">

Indian border guards fired on hundreds of Pakistanis who tried to cross a
cease-fire line separating the Pakistan-controlled part of Kashmir from that
held by India.  Pakistani troops then fired on the Indian security forces.
No one was hurt in the exchange.  A fluid 840-mile cease-fire line separates
the Indian and Pakistan parts of Kashmir.  The conflict over Kashmir flared
January 20th after a government crackdown and arrest of 250 suspected
militants.  They were soon released; however, the arrests sparked the
violence. The majority of the 85 people killed in the violence have been
protesters shot by security forces.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d114"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900220-0089"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="F">

A Pakistani soldier became the first military casualty during the recent
unease on the Kashmir border when he was shot in the leg at the cease-fire
line.  Relations were strained between India and Pakistan after Indian
troops launched a crackdown on Moslem separatists in Jammu-Kashmir.  Leaders
of both countries have tried to calm things and not allow the situation to
erupt into war.  The situation does remain tense and shooting incidents
continue to occur.  Another sign of increased tensions: Pakistani and Indian
officers no longer accompany United Nations' military observers when
crossing the borders.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d114"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900224-0094"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="F">

The latest round of secessionist violence and government crackdown has
resulted in 109 persons killed.  The president of the Pakistan state of
Kashmir said that Kashmiris have begun smuggling arms to Moslem insurgents
fighting for independence from India.  Thousands of Moslems went to a Moslem
saint's shrine to seek blessings to liberate Kashmir from India. In
Srinagar, Moslem militants told people to change their watches to correspond
to Pakistan time.  Fights broke out when people refused to comply.  At least
200,000 people marched to the United Nations Military Observers Group
demanding a plebiscite in Kashmir.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d114"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900307-0146"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="F">

In the most recent violence in Kashmir, Moslems blew up a truck killing
three soldiers.  In other incidents, militants killed a Moslem said to be a
police informer and another died when caught in exchange of gunfire between
militants and security forces.  Moslem snipers fired on security forces
during a five-hour curfew relaxation called to allow people to shop for
essentials.  The curfew had been imposed after security forces killed 49
Moslem demonstrators marching into Srinagar to participate in a
demonstration to demand independence for the predominantly Moslem state.  At
least 171 people have been killed in the violence since January 20th.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d114"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900324-0081"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="F">

Moslem militants killed five more people in their fight for independence
from predominantly Hindu India bringing the total killed since January 20th
to at least 195.  Four of the most recently killed were Moslems, two of
which were likely Communists, and the fifth was not identified.  A former
state legislator was kidnapped at gunpoint near his home, but no claims of
responsibility or demands have been made.  The kidnap victim had previously
negotiated the exchange of the kidnapped daughter of the Home Minister for
five  members of the radical Jammu-Kashmir Liberation Front, a group waging
a campaign of bombings and assassinations.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d114"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900330-0086"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="F">

Thousands of Moslems gathered for the funeral of Ashfaq Mmajid Wani, a
leader of the Jammu-Kashmir Liberation Front separatist group.  Police shot
him after he tried to hurl a grenade into a police bunker while riding by on
a motor scooter.  The thousands of residents had gathered near Wani's home
in an attempt to hold funeral procession in defiance of a government curfew.
Soldiers and police prevented the procession and took Wani's body to a
burial ground in a government ambulance.  At least 233 have now been killed
since January 20th when police launched a crackdown on violence by Moslem
separatists.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d114"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900406-0164"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="F">

Moslem militants kidnapped two prominent Kashmir residents and threatened to
kill them in retaliation for the killing of six militants crossing into
Pakistan for arms and training.  The kidnap victims were the Vice Chancellor
of Kashmir University and the general manager of Hindustan Machine Tools Co.
A spokesman for the Students Liberation Front, a branch of the Jammu-Kashmir
Liberation Front said those two and another hostage would be killed within
24 hours unless three jailed militants were released.  India claims that
Pakistan trains and arms militants in the far northern tip of India.
Pakistan denies this claim.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d114"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900524-0130"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="F">

Pakistani Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto accused India of genocide in
Kashmir.  She was referring to the assassination of the top Moslem cleric in
Indian Kashmir.  During his funeral Indian forces shot to death 58 people.
Ms Bhutto returned from a visit to Arab and Moslem countries claiming their
support should Pakistan be subjected to aggression.  She opposes an
independent Kashmir and has called for talks between her country and India
and, also, that a neutral body should look into charges made by both sides.
India has rejected both suggestions.  The Indian government's crackdown on
militants has resulted in 400 deaths.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d114"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900625-0090"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="F">

The Hezbul Mujahedeen is believed responsible for kidnapping and killing
four Moslems whose bodies were found in the town of Sopore.  The Hezbul
Mujahedeen is one of more than a dozen Moslem organizations fighting for
independence of the Kashmir valley from India.  The murdered Moslems were
said to be police informants.  A militant ambush of an army convoy killed
one soldier and wounded three others.  These deaths raise the total of those
killed since January 20th to 630.  Moslem militants had earlier demanded
union with Pakistan, but more recently are demanding independence for
Kashmir and the status of a neutral nation.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d114"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900718-0069"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="F">

The Indian government imposed direct federal rule in Kashmir where their
security forces are battling to put down rebellion by Moslem separatists.
This action follows the killing of at least 29 Moslem militants by Indian
security forces.  Meanwhile, in the Pakistani capital Islamabad, Pakistan
and India began negotiations to repair deteriorating conditions between the
two countries.  India claims, and Pakistan denies, that Kashmiri militants
cross into Pakistan for arms and training.  The announcement of federal rule
was made in the belief that the state was too unstable for elected
government.  Since India cracked down on the militants, 792 people have been
killed.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d114"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900724-0090"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="F">

Indian frontier guards killed 20 Moslem militants and arrested nine others
who were sneaking into Kashmir from Pakistan.  India has increased border
patrol to stop alleged terrorist infiltration from Pakistan. Indian guards
have seized rifles, machine guns and ammunition from the infiltrators.  In
one week, 80 militants died in frontier incidents.  Pakistan denies training
and arming the militants but it does support separatism, terming it a fight
for self-determination. The separatists have changed their demands from
union with Pakistan to total independence.  Since the government launched a
crackdown on the separatists in January, at least 863 people have been
killed.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d114"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900821-0092"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="F">

India sent tanks and reinforcements to the frontier with Pakistan where
soldiers from the two nations have been fighting.  The troops clashed in a
remote border area in Kashmir.  A Pakistani official accused India of firing
on civilians.  Despite tensions in the area, both countries downplayed the
incidents as being localized and not serious.  Indian Prime Minister Singh
said military directors from both countries were in touch.  India accuses
Pakistan of supporting Moslem secessionists in Kashmir by providing arms and
training, a charge Pakistan denies.  Since the Indian crackdown on the
militants in January, at least 1,034 people have been killed.</SUM>
