<SUM
DOCSET="d061"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880911-0016"
SELECTOR="J"
SUMMARIZER="I">

Hurricane Gilbert is moving toward the Dominican Republic, where the residents of the 
south coast, especially the Barahona Province, have been alerted to prepare for heavy 
rains, and high winds and seas.  Tropical Storm Gilbert formed in the eastern Caribbean 
and became a hurricane on Saturday night.  By 2 a.m. Sunday it was about 200 miles 
southeast of Santo Domingo and moving westward at 15 mph with winds of 75 mph.  
Flooding is expected in Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands.  The second hurricane of the 
season, Florence, is now over the southern United States and downgraded to a tropical 
storm.</SUM> 


<SUM
DOCSET="d061"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ880912-0064"
SELECTOR="J"
SUMMARIZER="I">

Hurricane Gilbert is heading toward Jamaica with 100 mph winds.  A hurricane warning 
has been issued for the island.  This exceptionally large system was about 425 miles east 
of Kingston on Sunday afternoon.  As many as 10 inches of rain were predicted for the 
southern coast of the Dominican Republic, where flights have been cancelled.  Warnings 
were also issued for Haiti and Cuba.  The storm is gaining strength after passing Puerto 
Rico, where there was coastal flooding and wind damage.  Three people were reported 
injured.  Gilbert formed in the eastern Caribbean and became a hurricane Saturday night.</SUM>  


<SUM
DOCSET="d061"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880912-0095"
SELECTOR="J"
SUMMARIZER="I">

Hurricane Gilbert hit Jamaica today with 110 mph winds and torrential rain, causing 
serious damage in Kingston overnight.  The storm center is expected to hit land at 
Clarendon parish, then move lengthwise across the island.  The government is preparing 
for the worst with government agencies on alert and coastal residents directed to move to 
higher ground.  Communications have already been affected.  Gilbert, described as one of 
the larger systems, has already caused some damage in Puerto Rico, the Dominican 
Republic, Haiti, and Cuba.  Fears are high on the Cayman Islands, the next target on its 
track.</SUM>


<SUM
DOCSET="d061"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880912-0137"
SELECTOR="J"
SUMMARIZER="I">

The full force of Hurricane Gilbert slammed into Kingston, Jamaica, at noon on Monday.  
Torrential rain and 115 mph winds severely damaged the city and its airport.  No 
casualties or injuries have been reported.  The storm is expected to move lengthwise 
across the island, dropping as much as 10 inches of rain.  Next landfall is expected to be 
the Cayman Islands, where tourists are attempting to evacuate and residents were making 
preparations.  The United States Navy reported its bases on Puerto Rico and at 
Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, were not damaged by Gilbert as it moved through the central 
Caribbean.</SUM>


<SUM
DOCSET="d061"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880915-0003"
SELECTOR="J"
SUMMARIZER="I">

Hurricane Gilbert slammed into Mexico's Yucatan Peninsula on Wednesday.  The eye hit 
Cancun and Cozumel at 8 a.m. carrying winds up to 160 mph.  Heavy flooding, destroyed 
slums, and severed communications and power lines were reported.  No relief efforts 
were yet underway and bands of youth were said to be looting in Cancun.  About 175,00 
people had been evacuated from the coast.  Gilbert, a Category 5--the deadliest--has 
already killed 24 people in the Caribbean.  It is now moving over the Yucatan toward the 
Gulf of Mexico where warnings have been issued and ports and airports closed.</SUM>


<SUM
DOCSET="d061"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880916-0060"
SELECTOR="J"
SUMMARIZER="I">

Hurricane Gilbert's growth baffles forecasters.  On 3 September it was a dry low-pressure 
trough--one of 50-60 a year--west of Africa.  By Tuesday night it was an intense storm 
with the lowest barometric pressure--26.13 inches--ever recorded.  Why did Gilbert 
strengthened and others not?  Scientists do know that budding storms need to be off the 
equator and are fueled by winds converging where there is high moisture in the lower 
atmosphere.  Clouds may form and the air mass starts spinning, moving heat to the upper 
atmosphere.  The warm September waters in the Caribbean can cause the storm to 
explode.</SUM>
