<SUM
DOCSET="d106"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880508-0070"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="F">

A campaign at Northeastern University to award an honorary degree to South
African nationalist leader Nelson Mandela has been successful.  It was
necessary to change a university policy, which barred honorary degrees for
anyone who could not be present at the ceremony.  Mandela is imprisoned in
South Africa and the white-minority government will free him only if he
renounces the use of violence by forces seeking political power for blacks.
South African Archbishop Desmond Tutu will accept the degree for Mandela.
The only remaining hitch is getting Mandela family approval, which has not
yet been received.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d106"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP881113-0007"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="F">

The African National Congress representative in Canada said that the South
African government may release 70-year old Nelson Mandela from prison on
November 15th.  Mandela was sentenced to life in prison 27 years ago for
conspiring to overthrow the South African apartheid government.  Mandela was
transferred from prison to a hospital three months for treatment of
tuberculosis.   Release of Mandela would be viewed as a move by the South
African government to win international support.  A government source said
that the anti-apartheid movement had orchestrated the rumors of Mandela's
pending release to pressure the government to take action.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d106"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890118-0100"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="F">

An activist and family friend of Nelson Mandela said that four African
National Congress leaders that had been convicted along with Mandela in 1964
were allowed to visit Mandela just before Christmas.  The four who were all
held at Victor Verster Prison were taken to Pollsmoor Prison and spent about
six hours with Mandela.  The Prisons Service declined to confirm or deny the
visit.  Mandela had been moved to a suburban-style home on the prison
grounds in early December after recovering from tuberculosis.  Mandela's
wife, Winnie, had visited him the previous month and said that he was
"practically in solitary confinement".</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d106"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890717-0149"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="F">

A large family group was permitted to visit Nelson Mandela in prison on his
71st birthday.  Mandela's wife, Winnie, and several of his children,
grandchildren, a daughter-in-law and a great-grandson comprised the group.
There had been speculation that Mandela would be released from prison,
especially after a summer meeting with President P, W. Botha.  Mandela told
his wife that the meeting should not be interpreted as leading to his
release. Mandela has been in prison since 1962 when he was sentenced to five
years.  He was then given a life sentence in 1964 for sabotage and plotting
to overthrow the government.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d106"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA021190-0181"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="F">

Nelson Mandela joined the African National Congress in 1944 at age 26 and
became active in black protests and civil disobedience to fight apartheid.
He was often arrested by the South African government and finally received a
life sentence in 1964 for sabotage and conspiracy.  In 1985, then President
Botha offered to release him if he renounced violence.   Mandela refused.
Mandela was celebrated outside South Africa on his 70th birthday but South
Africa banned local celebrations.  While in prison, Mandela contracted
tuberculosis but was treated and recovered.  President Frederik de Klerk
released Mandela from prison in February 1990.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d106"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA021190-0179"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="F">

World leaders welcomed South Africa's announcement that Nelson Mandela would
be released from prison. Many of the world's nations had cut off commercial
contact with South Africa because of its policy of apartheid.
Anti-apartheid foes warned against lessening pressure against South Africa
even as they celebrated the announcement.  International support for
anti-apartheid victims should continue.  A different line was taken by
Britain's Margaret Thatcher who said "it no longer makes sense to discourage
new investment in South Africa".  Mandela was hailed for "his indomitable
courage".  The Commonwealth Secretary General said that South Africa must
guarantee Mandela's safety until change there becomes irreversible.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d106"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900609-0040"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="F">

New York City mayor Dinkins warned Jewish group not to protest the coming
visit of Nelson Mandela to the city.  Jewish-American leaders plan to meet
with Mandela during his visit to get clarification of his position on
Israel.  Mandela had compared the struggle of Palestinians to that of black
South Africans and had visited Yasser Arafat.  If Mandela does not make a
strong statement in support of Israel, the Jewish leaders would take out
newspaper ads and hold demonstrations.  Dinkins noted that many people hold
Mandela in very high esteem and that he is "an international symbol of
freedom".</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d106"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900620-0133"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="F">

The arrival of African National Congress leader Nelson Mandela in New York
city has led to statements of praise from government officials and other
nationally known leaders and supporters.  New York Governor Cuomo, New
Jersey Governor Florio, and New York Mayor Dinkins were lavish in their
praise.  Dinkins said Mandela was like "a modern-day Moses leading the
people of South Africa from enslavement".  The Rev Jesse Jackson said the
presence of Mandela "generates hope around the world".  Former tennis star
Arthur Ashe said that seeing Mandela free was "one of my fondest dreams and
hopes".</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d106"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP901006-0037"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="F">

Unknown assailants hurled a grenade and fired shots at the home of relatives
of Nelson Mandela, killing a baby and injuring her parents.  Police did not
know who was responsible since no group claimed responsibility and also did
not know if the attack was deliberately targeted or random.  Fighting in
black townships around Johannesburg have killed about 800 people in the last
two months.  The African National Congress notes the timing of the attack on
a man named Mandela as a "curious coincidence".  Nelson Mandela has accused
security forces of manipulating violence to derail government efforts to end
apartheid, promised by President deKlerk.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d106"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06145218"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="F">

Nelson Mandela had presided over a divided African National Congress not yet
organized for politics, in talks with the white government.  Mandela has
spent his moral capital attempting to end the murderous conflict between
black political factions.  Mandela's wife, Winnie, had now been convicted of
a brutal criminal offense, adding to his problems.  Radical opponents in the
ANC will use Winnie's conviction to arouse members against Mandela's policy
of peace and negotiation.  Some optimism remains, however, since most South
Africans have reacted calmly and fairly.  Those for whom Mandela and
President de Klerk speak have a common interest in creating a new,
non-racial country.</SUM>
