<SUM
DOCSET="d087"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880228-0013"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="F">

Debi Thomas, the US hope for a figure skating gold medal in the 1988 Winter
Olympics, was disappointed when the Gold went to Germany's Katarina Witt and
the Silver to Canadian Elizabeth Manley.  Manley was loudly cheered by
fellow Canadians throughout her performance.  Thomas, who was a US and 1986
world champion, was awarded the Bronze medal.  Other US figure skating medal
winners Brian Boitano with the Gold and Jill Watson and Peter Oppegard with
the Bronze in pairs.  US speed skaters won gold, silver, and bronze with
Bonnie Blair taking both a gold and a Bronze.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d087"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880228-0097"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="F">

The US had its worst Winter Olympic Games showing in 52 years, taking only
six medals.  Two of the medals were gold won by Brian Boitano in figure
skating and Bonnie Blair in speed skating.  Blair also won a bronze, making
her the only US double winner.  The US narrowly missed winning a bronze in
the bobsled event when they were beaten by only .02 seconds.  The Soviet
hockey team had it first loss of the Games at the hands of Finland  but
still managed to win the gold while Finland won the Silver.  Overall, the
Soviets won the most medals, followed by East Germany and Switzerland.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d087"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880929-0042"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="F">

Florence Griffith Joyner is on target to become only the second woman to win
four gold medals in track and field events in a single Olympics.  Her gold
medals were in the 100 and 200 meter sprints set new Olympic and World
records.  The flamboyant Griffith Joyner is confident that she can run even
faster.  Her next chance to win gold would come in the 400 and 1600 meter
relays.  If successful in those events, she would match the quadruple gold
medal performance by American Carl Lewis in 1984 and Fanny Blankers-Koen of
the Netherlands in 1948.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d087"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP881003-0066"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="F">

There were several shining moments for US Olympians in the 1988 Summer
Games.  Diver Greg Louganis won a second pair of gold medals after a
springboard accident, track star Florence Griffith Joyner won three golds
and a silver medal, and her sister-in-law, Jackie Joiner-Kersee won two
golds.  Canadian Ben Johnson had rocketed to a world record performance over
US sprinter Carl Lewis in the 100 meter but was stripped of the gold medal
when he tested positive for anabolic steroid use.  The Games also saw
increasing anti-American sentiment by the host Koreans because of perceived
rudeness of the US team and NBC coverage of events.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d087"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP881002-0048"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="F">

The 1988 Summer Olympics in Seoul had no terrorist acts but was marred by
drug use, most notably by Canadian sprinter Ben Johnson, and bad behavior by
a few athletes.  The Soviets won the most medals, followed by the East
Germans and then the US.  Because of the boycotts in 1980 and 1984, these
games were the first meeting of the US and USSR since 1972.   Only Communist
North Korea and sports power Cuba boycotted these games.  A estimated
billion people watched the games on a worldwide TV hookup. The Seoul games
had the greatest number of athletes ever to compete in the Olympics.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d087"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ881004-0111"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="F">

The 1988 Olympic Games may have seen great performances by several US
athletes, but they may not lead to lucrative endorsement contacts for those
winners.  This is because Olympic gold may have lost its luster because of
drug scandals.  Also, the games were far from home and poorly covered by NBC
TV.  Unlike the 1984 Games in Los Angeles, which the USSR boycotted and the
US dominated, the Seoul games had the Soviets and East Germans winning more
medals than the US.  The US Olympians may get contracts to endorse
specialized sports equipment, but the high-paying soft drink and fast food
companies haven't called yet.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d087"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA082889-0067"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="F">

Dave Johnson of the US clinched the decathlon gold medal in the final event
of the World University Games.  Another American, Sheldon Blockburger, was
in third place in the decathlon until that last event but was overtaken by
Szabo of Hungary.  Medved of the USSR won the silver.  Americans won gold
and bronze in the men's 400-meter hurdles.  Ana Quirot of Cuba beat Jearl
Miles of the US in the women's 400 meters.  American Llewellyn Starks was
third in the long jump.  Romanian Paula Ivan set a meet record in winning
the women's 3,000-meter race.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d087"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900328-0128"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="F">

The late Jesse Owens, hero of the 1936 Berlin Olympics where he exploded the
Hitler myth of Aryan superiority, was honored at a White House ceremony when
President Bush presented the Congressional Gold Medal to his widow, Ruth
Owens.  Bush cited Owens' four gold medals at the Berlin Games as "a victory
for humanity".  Bush, borrowing a phrase from Ruth Owens, said it was not
the athletic feats but "his humanitarian contributions in the race of life"
that earned the medal for Owens.  Owens' name lives on through many
activities and a foundation that awards scholarships to needy youth.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d087"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA040790-0121"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="F">

Milan Bakes, a lieutenant in the Czech army set a world record in the
kneeling portion of the three position rifle competition en route to a gold
medal at the 1990 World Cup USA Olympic-style shooting tournament in Chino,
California.  Francoise Decharne of France won the women's air rifle
competition in the most closely contested event of the day.  Jasna Sekaric
of Yugoslavia won her second gold in the women's air pistol event winning
over a South Korean, appropriately named Bang, and a West German.  Sekaric
had won gold and bronze medals at the Seoul Olympics.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d087"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT923-8765"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="F">

Relay teams from affluent countries are the most frequent winners in the
Olympics.  The four relay finals will dominate this evening's games in
Barcelona.  Over the years, the US has won the most relay medals followed by
Britain and the former Soviet Union.  The Cuban women's 100 meters relay
teams in 1968 and 1972 are the only women outside the developed world to win
gold.  Carl Lewis will pursue his eighth Olympic gold as a member of a very
strong US team.  In a completed event, Voula Patoulidou of Greece won the
gold in womens 100m.</SUM>
