<SUM
DOCSET="d111"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880521-0088"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="F">

Greek divers have found the remains of a Turkish warship, the Bourloti
Seimaz, in the eastern Aegean near the island of Chios.  Greek
revolutionaries had sunk the ship in 1822 in revenge for Turkish killing and
looting on Chios.  Thousands died in Chios and this action put European
countries behind the Greek struggle for independence from the Ottoman
Empire, which they won in 1830.  The Greeks had rammed the Turkish ship with
a boatload of explosives.  The Greeks escaped the explosion that killed the
Ottoman commander.   The remains of the ship lie under 162 feet of water
making recovery difficult.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d111"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880913-0070"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="F">

A Finnish-registered freighter with a cargo of beer sank in high winds in
the North Sea.  The sinking occurred off the Dutch coast near the island of
Ameland.  A West German helicopter rescued the crew members from their life
rafts.  All nine were safe.  The ship's departure point and destination were
not known.  The Dutch Navy also responded to the scene, sending a plane and
two lifeboats.  Early reports had said the ship was a passenger ferry,
possibly Dutch.  Ferries and cargo ships frequent the shipping lanes between
the coastal islands and the Dutch mainland.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d111"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890125-0099"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="F">

The mysterious sinking of the Lucona in the Indian Ocean ignited a scandal
that led to high level political resignations twelve years later.  Six
sailors died in the sinking, which was believed deliberate and the
wrongdoing of Udo Proksch.  The ship's cargo was listed as material for a
uranium processing plant and was insured for $16 million dollars.  The
insurance company refused to pay, alleging that the cargo was really scrap
metal.  Proksch, wanted by Austrian authorities, has fled.  Parliament
President Leopold Gratz and Interior Minister Karl Blecha, both friends of
Proksch have resigned because they allegedly helped Proksch.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d111"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890201-0043"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="F">

An Argentine supply ship, which also carried tourists, ran aground and sank
off Antarctica.  Tourists and crew were evacuated from the Bahia Paraiso to
Palmer Station, a US facility. No injuries were reported.  Leaks from the
ship killed some krill, a vital part of the food chain, and any further
leaks would constitute an ecological disaster.  Argentine officials doubted
further spilling since the ship's fuel and that being taken to the Argentine
Esperanza station were in steel drums.  A cruise ship took the tourists to
the South Shetland Islands, but 104 crewmen remained at the station, which
is equipped for only 40 people.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d111"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890417-0189"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="F">

The merchant ship Ravenscraig rescued 23 crewmembers of the Star of
Alexandria, which sank in rough seas 400 miles southeast of Cape Cod.  Two
sailors are still missing.  The British-registered ship was en route from
Athens to New York with a load of cement when it began taking on water in
the rough seas.  The US Coast Guard responded to the mayday call and sent a
jet and a C-130 to the scene.  The C-130 was dropped a radio to the crew and
they were able to establish communications.  Four hours later, the
Ravenscraig, en route to England, rescued them.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d111"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890613-0125"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="F">

The Ostwind, a yacht built for Adolf Hitler, was sunk to commemorate the
"Voyage of the Damned" in which a ship carrying over 900 Jews escaping the
Holocaust was turned away and forced to return to Europe and to Nazi
concentration camps.  The ship was intended to become part of a coral reef.
However, the barge carrying it dropped it mile from the intended site
threatening a delicate coral reef and sea life.  Event sponsors blamed the
barge captain for the error. The Ostwind must be moved or cut to pieces to
avoid becoming a hazard to ships heading to Miami.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d111"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890622-0157"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="F">

An American oceanographer, Robert Ballard, has discovered the location of
the German battleship Bismark, sunk in 1941.  Ballard believes the crew
scuttled the ship rather than allowing the British to capture or sink it.
Structural evidence and the ship sitting upright convinced Ballard of the
scuttling rather than the British sinking it.  An ocean-crawling robot
discovered the ship in deep water about 600 miles west of Brest, France.
Ballard said he would provide the exact location only to the Germans so they
could decide what, if anything, to do about it.  In WWII, Prime Minister
Churchill had made sinking the Bismark a priority.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d111"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890820-0068"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="F">

A Florida couple survived for 66 days at sea in a rubber lifeboat after
whales sank their pleasure boat.  As the boat was sinking, they grabbed
fishing rods and a salt-water purifier and stayed alive by eating raw fish
and drinking purified water.  William and Simone Butler   lost about 50
pounds each and were weak but recovering at a hospital in Costa Rica.  A
Costa Rican Coast Guard ship rescued the couple who said several whales
attacked and sank their boat.  A US Coast Guard spokesman said that boats
sometimes run into marine mammals but knew of no recorded cases of whale
aggression.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d111"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FBIS4-57796"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="F">

An Argentine corvette carried out control operations against a Korean vessel
illegally fishing in Argentine waters.  The Foreign Ministry approved the
intervention as being in accordance with priority to be given to preserve
marine life resources and punishing violators of national laws. The Korean
crew sank its own ship after it failed to answer the Argentine ship's
warnings.  Another Korean ship nearby rescued the crew of the sinking ship.
The incident occurred about 15 nautical miles off the coast of Malvinas so
the Argentine ship transferred assistance responsibility to British
authorities in accordance with bilateral agreements.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d111"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT943-178"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="F">

Roll-on roll-off ferries with vehicle decks running the entire length of
vessel are at great risk of capsizing should water penetrate the bow doors.
Eyewitness reports suggest that water penetrated the bow doors of the
Estonia, which sank, taking more than 800 lives. Five ferries sank in 1993, a 
small number when compared with 96 general cargo ships and 12 tankers which sank 
but, even so, a review of their safety features is in order.  It should look at 
design, ways to improve enforcement of existing regulations, and urge support of 
the International Maritime Organization in its campaign to improve crew 
training.</SUM>
