<SUM
DOCSET="d101"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06234048"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="F">

Kremlinologists who look for conspiracies are working overtime on recent
events in the Soviet Union. The announcement of Gorbachev's illness and a
palace coup provides a starting point for speculation.  Could it be that
Gorbachev has co-opted the coup?  Tanks did not roll until hours after
Gorbachev's supposed arrest and it was said that many of the tanks that
surrounded the Parliament building had no ammunition.  Russian President
Boris Yeltsin was not arrested.  According to the theory,  Gorbachev did not
want any bloodshed.  Even Eduard Shevardnadze, a longtime ally of Gorbachev,
considered the possibility that he was behind the activities.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d101"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06234209"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="F">

Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev prepared to return to Moscow from the
Crimea and reclaim power after the coup against him collapsed and its
leaders fled.  Crowds cheered outside the Russian parliament building, which
served as headquarters for resistance to the coup led by Boris Yeltsin.  The
national legislature demanded Gorbachev's reinstatement and nullified the
coup leaders' emergency decrees.  The three-day coup was one of the most
tumultuous events in recent history and its failure could be a fatal blow to
efforts to thwart reform drives by Gorbachev and Yeltsin.  Huge anti-Coup
demonstrations were held in Moscow, Leningrad, and other cities.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d101"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06234109"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="F">

Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev was back in power and returning to Moscow
as the collapsed coup leaders fled.  Tanks used in the takeover attempt were
leaving the capital.  President Bush said he spoke to Gorbachev and that the
Soviet leader was again "calling the shots".  The post-coup crackdown fell
most heavily on the independence-minded Baltic states where Latvia and
Estonia had declared independence for the Soviet Union.  Boris Yeltsin
supported Gorbachev during the coup but the two men have different
approaches to Soviet reforms.  Gorbachev's foreign minister promised that
reforms would continue and Moscow would honor its international commitments.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d101"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06235179"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="F">

US intelligence officers warned the White House a week before the Soviet
coup of a "real possibility" that hard-liners in the KGB or Soviet military
might try to block the signing of the new Union Treaty.  The proposed treaty
reduces Moscow's centralized control and strengthens powers of the 15 Soviet
Republics.  Soviet President Gorbachev was reinstated after the bungled coup
attempt but may become "irrelevant" and a figurehead under the new treaty.
The coup's failure may open the way to further reform as the Communist Party
becomes less of a political force.  However, a benign Soviet Union cannot be
automatically assumed.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d101"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06235097"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="F">

Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev said the failed power grab by hard-liners
could prove to be an opportunity to further his democratic reforms.  He
condemned the attempted takeover as being against "the people, against
democracy".  He named a new acting KGB chief, new interior and defense
ministers and said he would do everything to "drive out the reactionary
forces from the Communist Party".  Gorbachev said that he and Yeltsin were
brought together by the situation and he publicly praised Yeltsin who had
attained folk-hero status by rallying hundreds of thousands of his
supporters to resist the coup.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d101"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06235187"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="F">

The reactionary elements staging the coup in the Soviet Union miscalculated
by thinking the issue was Mikhail Gorbachev.  They apparently believed that
by neutralizing him they could take charge.  Freedom and democracy were the
real issue.  The failure of the counterrevolution will accelerate the
revolution rather than destroying it.  Boris Yeltsin is seen as the man who
saved Gorbachev.  He possesses talents that Gorbachev lackes: he is close to
the Russian people and is eager to challenge the apparatus of the Communist
Party.  Gorbachev had thought he needed the upper echelons of the Party to
protect him from those who opposed his reforms.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d101"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06236241"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="F">

Gorbachev told the Russian Parliament that the government would prosecute
those responsible for the takeover and accused the Communist Party Central
Committee of panicking during the coup.  Gorbachev praised Boris Yeltsin for
his role in halting the coup. Gorbachev warned against anti-Communist
hysteria.  Yeltsin had quit the Communist Party the previous year and is a
foe of its influence in the country.  Yeltsin suspended publication of six
Party newspapers.  Foreign Minister Bessmertnykh was fired and six of the
instigators of the coup were arrested.  One of the coup leaders committed
suicide as he was about to be arrested.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d101"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06236235"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="F">

In the aftermath of the coup, Gorbachev fired his foreign minister and
acting defense minister.  Boris Yeltsin fired the heads of the state-owned
media.  The Moscow City Council ordered all Communist Party buildings in the
capital sealed and telephone service cut off to party and KGB buildings.
Speaking before the Russian Parliament, Gorbachev affirmed Yeltsin's decrees
issued during the coup as legitimate.  Yeltsin commented several times
during Gorbachev's speech and Gorbachev deferred to him several times for
details of happenings during his detention.  Six of the top party officials
were arrested for instigating the coup.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d101"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06237020"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="F">

Boris Yeltsin, the leader of the resistance to the coup is now at least the
equal, if not the master of Gorbachev.  In a symbol of the new order, the
Russian tricolor now flies beside the Soviet red flag at the Kremlin gate.
At a joint appearance before the Russian parliament, Yeltsin signed a decree
suspending the activities of the Russian Communist Party as Gorbachev
stammered.  Yeltsin was the first to announce appointments to three key
positions.  All three appointees had taken a clear stand against the coup.
Yeltsin was clearly in control of the situation and Gorbachev's position was
weakening drastically.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d101"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06238185"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="F">

Gorbachev chose to ignore warnings of the hard-liners impending coup.  Some
warnings came from his advisors, but the clearest signals came from the
hard-liners themselves.  Defense Council Deputy Oleg Baklanov had called for
a military takeover as an appropriate step to avert reforms, but Gorbachev
ignored the warnings.  Conspiracy theorists find fuel from Gorbachev's
actions before and during the coup.  Some say that he was a member of the
conspiracy in order to thwart the signing of the new Union Treaty or to
ferret out disloyal elements.  But it is clear that Gorbachev put the
hard-liners in power despite their mutterings about him.</SUM>
