<SUM
DOCSET="d091"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA061590-0176"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="F">

A flash flood raged through small town areas along the Ohio River in eastern
Ohio.  So far, at least ten people are known dead but dozens are missing.
The flood created a wall of water 15 to 20 feet high as it tore through the
area.  The flood struck near the village of Shadyside, Ohio.  The village is
about ten miles south of Wheeling, West Virginia.  A crowded bar in
Shadyside was washed away when the torrent of water caved in a wall.  Only
two people have been accounted for.   Ohio Governor Celeste declared a state
of emergency after surveying the area.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d091"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900615-0164"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="F">

Thunderstorms generated floods which surged through a valley into the Ohio
River town of Shadyside killing at least 11 people.  Fifty-one are missing
and scores homeless.  Ohio governor Celeste declared a state of emergency
and said that the valleys were choked with debris.  Many people came to the
Shadyside disaster center hoping to learn of the missing.  Officials from
Ohio, West Virginia, and the Coast Guard searched the Ohio River for
survivors and bodies.  A flood watch, but not a warning, was issued before
the disaster.  About 5.5 inches of rain had fallen in a little more than
three hours.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d091"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900616-0032"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="F">

Residents began assessing the damage to their homes and property caused by a
furious flash flood that killed at least 11 and left many homeless.  A
police officer said that whole families were lost.  Downtown Shadyside was
the center of rescue operations.  The tremendous flood damage was to the
outskirts of town where small tractors and four-wheel-drive vehicles were
the only means of transportation.  Several residents recounted their
personal losses.  At least 170 members of the Ohio National Guard were
brought in to patrol and to help rebuild roads washed out by the floods.
Curious sightseers jammed highways leading into the stricken area.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d091"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900616-0123"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="F">

The mother of a 12-year-old girl held out hope for her daughter who, along
with nearly three dozen others, was still missing two days after the floods
in eastern Ohio.  The girl was with a nine-year-old friend, Amber Colvin,
when the flood struck.  Amber was swept down Wegee Creek and into the Ohio
River, but survived a seven-mile ordeal by clinging to logs.  Searchers used
trained dogs to search rubble along creek banks and workers sifted through
debris collected at the Hannibal locks and dam 25 downstream on the Ohio
River.  Victims told stories of fear, luck, and close calls during the
flood.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d091"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900618-0018"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="F">

The death toll from flash floods in eastern Ohio rose to 20, including five
children.  Sixteen people remain missing.  Dog teams from four states aided
in the search for the missing and workers dug into areas where the dogs
detected human scent.  Most of the search was concentrated along the creek
banks but divers also searched in the Ohio River.  Cars were found deeply
buried under debris along the creek banks.  The National Guard cleared roads
and bridges into the damaged area.  West Virginia also had millions of
dollars of damage but no deaths or serious injuries were reported.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d091"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900615-0115"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="F">

Thunderstorms swept through eastern Ohio causing flooding that killed at
least ten people, left many missing, and drove hundreds from their home.
Ohio Governor Celeste declared a state of emergence and surveyed the area.
Temporary morgues were set up at the Bellaire City Hospital and at a funeral
home in Shadyside, a community of 4,300 about ten miles south of Wheeling,
West Virginia.  Two creeks in this area that empty into the Ohio River were
the main area where flooding occurred.  The Ohio Emergency Management Agency
was assisted in coping with the emergency by other state agencies and the
Red Cross.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d091"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900618-0069"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="F">

A body was found in the Ohio River near Moundsville, West Virginia this
morning.   The death toll from last week's flooding was thereby raised to
21.  Little hope remained for the 14 people still listed as missing since
coroner's investigator Chuck Vogt said "you can't swim that long in the Ohio
River".  Thunderstorms this morning again swelled Wegee Creek and caused
suspension of the search those still missing.  Few people in this
coal-mining area had flood insurance and ordinary homeowners' insurance
would not cover flood damage.  The Federal Emergency Management Agency
planned to accept applications for low-interest loans and grants to help
residents rebuild.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d091"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA061890-0066"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="F">

The death toll from flash flooding in creeks in eastern Ohio reached 19
Sunday.  Workers used picks and shovels to dig along creek banks where dogs
had detected human scent.  Twenty-three dog teams from four states searched
for victims.  Often, cars are found buried in the brush and tree piles and
they had to be torn apart and searched separately.  The flood destroyed as
many as 70 houses and damaged 40 others.  Officials learned that some of
those feared missing had moved out of the area but that still left 18 listed
as missing.</SUM>
