<SUM
DOCSET="d119"
TYPE="MULTI"
SIZE="200"
DOCREF="LA020289-0065 LA072689-0050 LA020389-0041 AP890801-0134 AP890517-0106
FBIS3-13911 AP900420-0006 AP900510-0029 WSJ920203-0038 AP890715-0076 AP900102-0114"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="F">

Senate confirmation hearings for President Bush's nominees for
ambassadorships have shown mixed results for the administration.  Some
nominees like Shirley Temple Black the designated ambassador to
Czechoslovakia, sailed through the process. The nominees for Spain,
Switzerland, Australia, and New Zealand faced strong questioning during
Senate committee hearings but were eventually slimly approved.  Democrats
and retired diplomats believed that three of the nominees had no real
qualifications but were picked because of large money contributions to the
Republican Party. Democrats also had concern about the nominee to be
ambassador to Italy.   Senator Jesse Helms and other conservatives objected
to one nominee because he was a Democrat and were thought likely to have
such strong objections to another that her name was withdrawn.  That woman
was initially picked to be ambassador to Nicaragua since that country was to
install a woman as president but the potential objections led to a seasoned
Latin American expert being named.  The administration picked Thomas
Pickering, the ambassador to the UN to be ambassador to India.  This
selection of a well-known diplomat underscores the administration concern
regarding the Indian subcontinent where India and Pakistan, both now nuclear
capable, continue to feud over Kashmir.</SUM>
