<SUM
DOCSET="d119"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA020289-0065"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="F">

President Bush has decided to nominate James Lilley to be ambassador to
China.  Lilley was CIA chief of station in China when Bush headed the US
liaison office there in 1974-1975.  Lilley was born in China of American
parents working there.  Bush's choice for assistant secretary of state for
Latin America, Democrat Bernard Aronson, has raised concern from the two
leading Republican Senators on the Foreign Relations Committee.  Senators
Helms and Lugar have expressed their concerns to Secretary of State Baker.
It is unlikely that the senators will block the nomination but will probably
conduct tough questioning during confirmation hearings.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d119"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA020389-0041"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="F">

President Bush has decided to nominate James Lilley to be ambassador to
China.  Lilley was CIA chief of station in China when Bush headed the US
liaison office there in 1974-1975.  Lilley was born in China of American
parents working there.  Bush's choice for assistant secretary of state for
Latin America, Democrat Bernard Aronson, has raised concern from the two
leading Republican Senators on the Foreign Relations Committee.  Senators
Helms and Lugar have expressed their concerns to Secretary of State Baker.
It is unlikely that the senators will block the nomination but will probably
conduct tough questioning during confirmation hearings.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d119"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890517-0106"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="F">

The Senate Foreign Relations Committee endorsed the nomination of Republican
activist Peter Secchia to be ambassador to Italy.  The chairman, Senator
Pell, had many misgivings about the nomination but did not vote against
Secchia.  Secchia pledged to be more careful in his use of language as a
diplomat that he had used as an activist.  Pell was not convinced.  He said
that the nomination was a mistake and that "in all likelihood Mr. Secchia
will be an embarrassment to the administration and the United States".
However, since Secchia is the president's choice he would not try to block
it.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d119"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890801-0134"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="F">

Ronald Spiers, a veteran US diplomat will be the new undersecretary-general
for General Assembly affairs at the UN. Secretary-General Javier Perez de
Cuellar announced the appointment. This is the top ranking American post at
the world body and Spiers will replace Joseph Reed, a banker who served in
that post until since 1983.  Reed will become chief of protocol for the
United States.  Spiers is a career foreign service officer and has been
ambassador to the Bahamas and Turkey and, from 1981 until 1983 was
ambassador to Pakistan.  Spiers most recent job was undersecretary of state
for management affairs.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d119"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890715-0076"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="F">

Joseph Gildenhorn, named by President Bush to be ambassador to Switzerland
has been rated "unqualified" by the American Academy of Diplomacy, an
organization composed of former high ranking diplomats including all living
former secretaries of state.  Gildenhorn, a lawyer and real estate
developer, and his family have given nearly $230,000 to Republican campaigns
since 1984.  A State Department report said that Gildenhorn would make an
excellent candidate for ambassadorship and also noted that he has been a
strong Republican supporter, citing his money contributions.  Three other
candidates for ambassadorships have also been rated unqualified by the
Academy of Diplomacy.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d119"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA072689-0050"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="F">

Three of President Bush's ambassadorial nominees won narrow approval from
the Senate Foreign Relations Committee.  Democrats said the only
qualifications of the three were political connections.  Those nominees were
Joseph Zappala for Spain, Marvin Sembler for Australia, and Della Newman for
New Zealand.  Senator Paul Sarbanes led the opposition in committee and
vowed to carry the fight to the Senate floor.  The committee routinely
approved Shirley Temple Black for Czechoslovakia. Other ambassadorial
approvals were Thomas Melady to the Vatican, Keith Brown to Denmark and
Joseph Gildenhorn to Switzerland. William Howard Taft IV was approved to be
US representative on the council of NATO.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d119"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900102-0114"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="F">

President Bush named career diplomat Deane Hinton as ambassador to Panama as
a recess appointment since Congress is not in session.  Hinton, currently
ambassador to Costa Rica, replaces Arthur Davis who had been recalled in
protest of what the administration considered the stealing of the Panamanian
elections by General Manuel Noriega.  Davis was later returned to Panama
after US forces invaded Panama and Guillermo Endara was installed as
president.  Hinton has also been ambassador to El Salvador and Pakistan.
Senate Majority Leader George Mitchell called Hinton highly qualified
because of his "wide-ranging experience and expertise in Central America".</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d119"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ920203-0038"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="F">

President Bush plans to name UN Ambassador Thomas Pickering as US envoy to
India and to appoint Foreign Service Director General Edward Perkins to
replace him.  The long, bitter feud between India and Pakistan, now both
nuclear powers, means Pickering's new job could be important.  Pickering's
posting to the UN was one of Bush's first appointments and his service there
covered the time when negotiations were underway to form he coalition
against Iraq in the Gulf War. Mr. Perkins was ambassador to South Africa
when the US imposed economic sanctions against that nation's white-minority
government to pressure it to end apartheid.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d119"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900420-0006"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="F">

President Bush is expected to name Melissa Wells, currently ambassador to
Mozambique, to be ambassador to Nicaragua.  The administration apparently
believes that a female ambassador can relate better to the new president
Violeta Chamorro.  Several male career diplomats with experience in Latin
American affairs were passed over in the selection of Ms Wells.  Ms Wells
was born in Estonia and has no Latin American experience but does speak
Spanish.  The US and Nicaragua have not had ambassadors in each other's
country since July 1988 when President Daniel Ortega expelled the US
ambassador and President Reagan expelled the Nicaraguan ambassador.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d119"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900510-0029"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="F">

The Bush administration fearing that the nomination of Melissa Wells to be
ambassador to Nicaragua might face a prolonged Senate confirmation fight has
decided to name Harry Shlaudeman for the post.  Ms Wells is ambassador to
Mozambique, but Senator Jesse Helms and his colleagues had blocked that
appointment for 11 months as an expression of opposition to the Reagan
administration's friendship toward Mozambique's Marxist government and might
delay action on Wells again.  Shlaudeman is considered the premier State
Department specialist on Latin America and is expected to win easy Senate
confirmation.  He has served as ambassador to Argentina, Peru, Brazil, and
Venezuela.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d119"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FBIS3-13911"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="F">

A column by Fahd al-Fanik in Arabic in the Amman AL-RA'Y, notes that the new
US ambassador to Jordan is a heavyweight having served in Cairo, Saudi
Arabia, two African countries, and a European country.  Wesley Egan, the new
ambassador, is expected to pay special attention to stability in Jordan and
its economic development.  However, most of al-Fanik's column is aimed at
the comments of Senator Daniel Moynihan at Egan's confirmation hearing.  The
writer calls the senator the "Zionist Democrat from New York".    Moynihan's
saying the West Bank and Gaza are inappropriately called occupied
territories, the writer says, mirrors the Zionist lobby in the US.</SUM>
